---
title: Sprint Three
date: "2019-04-12"
---

Part 1 - Individual Accomplishments this Sprint

This week was mostly finishing up the third-party APIs. Algolia turned out to be the same as ElasticSearch in requiring Blaze pay plan on firebase to work. This was distressing, but per the team, we pushed forward with it. Mid week I reached out for help bc I was feeling really overwhelmed with all the information available that didn't seem to lead me to a resolution. Josh gave me a second set of eyes and suggested that most of what I was doing wouldn't work bc it required Node, which we weren't using. It was really discouraging to have someone else come in and see the problem I couldn't. However, I think with all the stress and conflicting docs, I had information overload and couldn't proceed with a clear mind. I had a firm foundation with the api key usage and was able to mirror the database manually into Algolia. 

Detailed Analysis

[https://github.com/labs11-homeless-services/web/pull/63]
Search was challenging, convoluted and end the end, a team effort to make work. I started with ElasticSearch as a suggestion and ended up trashing it because it required a firebase pay plan. I turned to the firebase docs which suggested using Algolia. After researching Algolia for several days and finding nothing that was very useful, I found a video that explained Algolia and ElasticSearch should be used in combination. Ofcourse, this was incorrect for our needs as well because it was all backend functional on Node. During this time, I combed Algolia docs and google trying any type of code I could find, modifying it and manipulating it until I realized it wouldn't work. When I asked for help, I recieved valuable insight on how I had been approaching the issue. A second team member suggested a npm package, but I had seen that in the previous week and after a cusory look didn't think I could make it work. Ultimately, Matt broke that package down and made it functional. I had already mirrored the backend but with testing we found that the data wasn't being pulled correctly. So I resubmitted the data to Aloglia manually. Again there was issue that Matt stepped in to correct with an id output in react. 

Part 2 - Weekly Reflection

The past three weeks have been a struggle with myself more than my team. I suggested some cool new software for us to use to stand out, but when it came to implementing it, my weaknesses have really been highlighted. There have been times I've been jealous of teammates because of their ability to seemingly "sail" through tasks. There have been moments of frustration with other teammates who come in and just "fix" what someone else is working on. However, I have to come to realize most of this comes from lack of confidence in my own skills; not unfounded. I watched a teammate this week come to help with my search feature and take what I had been circling for days, and make it work within 30 mins. It was a little crushing. It showed me how my negative feelings towards him, where more out of fear that him doing anything wrong. It's been a hard week facing my own weakness in programming. I can teach concepts, I can even create. But I really struggle with the logic of it all. It makes me question if I should be in the positions I am as a teacher. It was astounding to watch Matt work this week. He's really quite skilled and has an amazing understanding of the logic behind the code. I don't know if this will come with time, but working on a team has been very powerful. I've seen my own judgements corrected. This team has done an amazing job of supporting one another with humility.